Homework was quite a bit tougher this week! I started out doing crypto-square, but I was having a lot of difficulty getting the encryption to work right. I ended up staying up way too late trying to get it to work before switching to one of the other problems.

Sieve took me about five minutes, so I moved on to wordy. Wordy wasn't too difficult. I had a few problems with borrowing (I'm still working on getting a hang of how it works), but I was able to finish it without too much headache. Doing wordy had taught me about the Result type, so figuring out protein-translation from there wasn't too difficult. It was mostly a matter of reading the tests carefully to figure out what it was I needed to do.

After all that, I was finally able to go back to crypto-square and figure out what I'd done wrong (I didn't quite have the right conditions on my loops) in order to solve the first couple of tests. After I removed the ignore from the other tests, I discovered that my function for getting the correct row and column values for items with a length less than 6 wasn't working, so I wrote a work around. I also wasn't getting the correct value all the time for perfect squares, so I added a break statement to keep the loop from continuing to run if one was found.

Finally, I decided to tackle robot-name. Now, personally, I don't think the instructions for robot-name are very good. I spent quite some time trying to figure out how to set up a global hash map in order to truly guarentee that there were never two robots with the same name. After failing enough times, I decided to look at the GitHub for exercism to see if I could get an idea of what I was doing wrong by looking at the example code. A quick scan of the official example code confirmed that there wasn't anything in the code to check for collisions. So, I double checked by looking at the comments on the assignment. Yep, you didn't actually need to worry about collisions at all as long as you were getting true random values and not using a set sequence or something. Since that was the only actual hard part of the problem, finishing robot-name was pretty quick after that.

Okay, bye.